---
layout: post
title: "Odd C* algebras"
date: 2023-05-26
categories: supermanifolds analysis
usemathjax: true
---

<p>
Whilst writing up some notes on Picard-Lindel&ouml;f was thinking some more
about topologies we can put on the space of superfunctions. An interesting
difference occurs with the purely even case where we have the duality
associating a compact space to its algebra of continuous functions. If we try
to directly construct a pre C*-like algebra on the space of smooth functions
of a supermanifold we immediately get unstuck - for example
\(C^\infty(\mathbb{R}^{0|1}) = \mathbb{R}[\eta]\) and the classification of
finite dimensional C*-algebras shows that this cannot be a (super) C* 
algebra.
<br/><br/>
Instead of trying to construct the algebra directly lets use some constructions
we understand. Assume that we have \(M = \Pi E\) for \(E \rightarrow M_0\)
a vector bundle over an even manifold. Choosing a metric on \(E\) we can
construct a Hilbert space \(\text{L}^2(M)\) by use of of a Hodge \( * \)
operator on the odd coordinates. This gives us a super Hilbert space (it is
generated by sections of \(p^ * D_{M_0}^{1/2}\) where \(p: M \rightarrow M_0\)
is the body projection and \(D_{M_0}^{1/2}\) is the bundle of half-densities).
Now we can define the (super) C* algebra of bounded operators on this Hilbert
space. The functions on \(M\) are such operators by the standard product
\(C^\infty(M) \otimes C^{\infty}(p^* D_{M_0}^{1/2}) \rightarrow C^\infty(p^ * 
D_{M_0}^{1/2})\).
<br/><br/>
We see some fundamental differences with the even case:
<ul>
<li> The construction we have provided is not natural, i.e. we have had to
make decisions about the metric, and the identification of \(M\) with \(\Pi
E\).</li>
<li>The minimal C* algebra containing the algebra \(C^\infty(M)\) is
non-commutative.</li>
</ul>
It is possible that there is a more natural construction of the C* algebra that
removes the issues relating to the first point but I cannot see how to remove
the second point and infact I don't think we have any supercommutative C*
algebras due to the following argument: Let \(\eta\) be an odd element, then
\(\eta^*\eta\) is a self-adjoint even element that squares to zero. This can
only happen if \(\eta^ * \eta\) is zero (by the \( * \)-property) but then we
must have \(||\eta|| = 0\).
<br/><br/>
Note that under the constructions we have given above for a free odd element
\(\eta\) we find that \(\eta^ * = i\partial_\eta\). The algebra is not closed
under the \( * \)-operation, moreover it corresponds to some weak "odd"
quantization hence the non-commutativity. 
</p>
